As a house, Barton Cottage, though small, was comfortable and compact;
but as a cottage it was defective, for the building was regular, the
roof was tiled, the window shutters were not painted green, nor were
the walls covered with honeysuckles. A narrow passage led directly
through the house into the garden behind. On each side of the entrance
was a sitting room, about sixteen feet square; and beyond them were the
offices and the stairs. Four bed-rooms and two garrets formed the rest
of the house. It had not been built many years and was in good repair.
In comparison of Norland, it was poor and small indeed!—but the tears
which recollection called forth as they entered the house were soon
dried away. Umbstaetter planned to publish only short stories, and to acquire some of the stories through contests designed to attract amateur writers, rather than by paying well-established writers the market rate. His budget for fiction was about the same as it would have needed to be for a more conventional approach, but by publicizing the contests he hoped to attract more readers and get a wider variety of fiction. By the time he was able to put his plans into action, nearly ten years had passed since his original proposal to price it at ten cents and many other magazines had been launched at that price, so he decided to go "still further on the road of popular prices”, and set the price at five cents per issue. The price of paper had been dropping for some time, and he was not the first publisher to take advantage of it—the Ladies' Home Journal had been launched at 5 cents, and two fiction magazines, the Chap-Book and Bibelot, had recently been started at the same price. The Black Cat was launched in octavo format (about 5.5 by 8.5 inches (14 cm × 22 cm)), the same size as the dime novels of the day.

Umbstaetter was optimistic enough about the magazine's prospects to place orders for 100,000 printed copies of the cover lithograph with the Riverside Press, despite being told by the printer that the order was "suicidal". He announced in the December 1895 issue of The Black Cat that all 100,000 copies of the first issue, dated October 1895, had sold out in three weeks.[note 2] The American News Company said in early 1896 that "no magazine ever published at any price has secured so large a sale in so short a time". Umbstaetter claimed circulation figures of 186,000 for 1896, and 120,000 or more over the next three years.[note 3] Starting in 1901, Umbstaetter sent affidavits to the newspaper annuals, showing circulation between 120,000 and just under 146,000 over the next seven years.

In the October 1896 issue, he announced that The Black Cat had paid out over $7,000 for stories during the magazine's first year, and launched a short story competition with a $1,000 first prize and another $1,100 available for the four next best stories. A condition of the competition was that all entries had to include a subscription to a year of The Black Cat, which cost 50 cents. The winners were announced the following summer, with the prize pool expanded to $2,600. The competition was repeated in 1897 and 1899, with prizes of over $4,000 each time. In 1901 non-cash prizes were added: the top prize was a trip around the world lasting 179 days, conducted by Raymond and Whitcomb, a travel company, and valued at $2,100. The second prize was a Surrey steam car, valued at $1,300, and other non-cash prizes included a piano, typewriters, and trips from Boston to San Francisco and from Boston to Cuba. There were cash prizes as well, the highest one worth $1,000.

After the next competition, which ended in July 1905 with an announcement that the planned prize amount of $10,600 would be expanded to $12,500, The Journalist published an article about Umbstaetter's methods. Stanley Johnson, the author of the article, had visited Umbstaetter's home in Back Bay, Boston multiple times during the second half of 1904, while the contest manuscripts were arriving. According to Johnson, Umbstaetter personally read nearly 8,000 of the manuscripts, and paid rewards to his manuscript readers if they found a publishable story that had been rejected by another of the readers. The next contest, the last to be run under Umbstaetter's editorship, was launched in April 1908, offering a smaller prize pool than the previous two competitions: $6,950 for ten stories. With the following issue Umbstaetter doubled the cover price to ten cents, citing increased production costs. Umbstaetter began to have health problems in 1912, and early that year he sold The Black Cat to Samuel Cassino, the publisher of Little Folks. Cassino moved the publishing offices to Salem, Massachusetts, and hired Theresa Dyer, who had been Umbstaetter's chief assistant, as editor. The September 1913 issue changed from octavo to pulp format (about 7 by 10 inches (18 cm × 25 cm)), though it did not yet switch to the cheaper pulp paper. Circulation suffered after the move to Salem; when an estimate was next reported, for 1916, circulation had dropped to 50,000.

Dyer only edited for a year or two. At about the time she left, the circulation manager of Metropolitan Magazine, T. H. Kelly, began negotiating with Cassino to purchase The Black Cat. The management of the Metropolitan refused to allow Kelly to own a magazine while working for them, but Kelly took over as editor for a while. Harold Bessom was hired as a reader while Kelly was editor, forwarding manuscripts to New York for Kelly to make the final selection. In 1915, Cassino sold the magazine to his son, Herman Cassino, who took over starting with the September issue; Herman was editor as well as owner, and fired Kelly and Bessom, intending to do all the editorial work himself. He soon found the business side of running the magazine took up too much of his time, and brought Bessom back as a reader, and eventually as the editor. At about this time, the magazine changed to using pulp paper instead of the more expensive coated stock.[note 4] Neither Samuel nor Herman Cassino had continued the contests with large cash prizes that had been inaugurated by Umbstaetter, but in 1916 Herman Cassino formed a "Black Cat Club", with small cash prizes for reader submissions of their favorite stories, and a prize of $25 for the most popular story in each issue.

In 1916, Essanay Studios arranged a deal with William Kane, who later become the publisher and editor of The Black Cat, to acquire a hundred stories from the magazine to turn into "Black Cat" films, each about half-an-hour long. The plan was to release one picture a week, starting on December 5, 1916, with "The Egg", a comedy starring Richard Travers and Marguerite Clayton. Kane loaned Essanay a set of The Black Cat issues, complete from the first issue through May 1915, and received $1,250 from Essanay for the one hundred stories they selected. Essanay failed to return the magazines to Kane, who sued them for $20,000 compensation for the loss of the magazines, eventually winning his case in the US Supreme Court.
When The Black Cat was launched, Umbstaetter's goal was to publish stories that were "unusual and unique". This typically did not include horror: in his guidance to writers he said "we especially desire stories, in the handling of which the morbid, unnatural and unpleasant are avoided rather than emphasized". He did not have any particular kind of story or setting in mind, telling one contributor that he had "no prejudices against any kind of story, for the simple reason that we can never tell beforehand but that a prize story may come out of an unappealing subject".

The first issue included three stories by Umbstaetter himself, two of them under pseudonyms, and four contributed by other writers. Reviews of the first issue were positive: the cover was praised as "artistic [and] exquisitely lithographed", and the stories were complimented as "the best tales, gotten up in the most fascinating form, and offered for the least money", and as "seven original, complete, and stirring tales..not floated by the reputation of the writer". This last point was later demonstrated by Charles Edward Barnes, author of "In a Tiger Trap", one of the stories in the first issue. The story was reprinted without permission in an English newspaper under the title "Iali, Which Means Forgiven", and subsequently reprinted in America. Umbstaetter sued and won damages from several publishers who had reprinted the story, and printed some of the correspondence in The Black Cat. Recounting the events in 1920, Bessom commented that the papers that reprinted it and "hailed [it] as one of the best stories" of the day had paid it no such compliments when it had first been printed. Barnes subsequently made a bet with some friends in the publishing industry that Umbstaetter would buy a good story from an unknown author in preference to a weaker story by a well-known name. To settle the bet, Barnes wrote two stories, and submitted them both to The Black Cat, one under his own name, and one under the pseudonym "S. C. Brean". Barnes won his bet: Umbstaetter rejected the story submitted under Barnes' name, and awarded one of the contest prizes to the pseudonymous story.

To this reputation for encouraging new writers The Black Cat added a reputation for originality. This was boosted early in the magazine's life by the appearance of "The Mysterious Card" by Cleveland Moffett, about a man who is given a card with an inscription that he cannot read, but which causes everyone he knows to refuse to have anything to do with him. It was printed in the February 1896 issue, and was so popular that 150,000 copies of that issue sold in three days, and a fresh print run also sold out. The mystery was explained in a sequel in the June 1896 issue, "The Mysterious Card Unveiled". Magazine historian Mike Ashley comments that "The Mysterious Card" was the most famous story to appear in The Black Cat, but that the sequel "would have been best left unwritten"; and according to Bessom's account of the magazine's history, written in 1920, writers of his day agreed that Moffett "spoiled his story by writing the sequel".

An unusual policy of Umbstaetter's was to pay for stories based on his opinion of their merit, not of their length, so that he might suggest to an author that he would increase the payment if they were to shorten the story. Umbstaetter believed that by paying "not according to length, but according to strength", and by paying high prices for stories, and avoiding serials, he would attract a loyal readership. The guidance to writers posted periodically in the magazine gave upper limits on the required word count that varied from 6,000 words to as low as 1,000 words.[note 5] The first few covers were illustrated by Umbstaetter's wife Nelly Littlehale Umbstaetter, and she continued to provide most of the covers until 1913. Over 150 of her drawings, all depicting the black cat that featured on the magazine's cover, were advertised in The Black Cat as a free gift with three years worth of subscriptions.

In the May 1899 issue, Umbstaetter printed "A Thousand Deaths" by Jack London. The story, about an inventor who could revive the dead, is well-known because it saved London's writing career. London was living in poverty at the time, sending out stories in the hope of getting paid one cent per word, which he had read was the usual rate for fiction. He finally sold a 4,000-word story, but to his horror was only paid $5.00. In London's later recollection, "I was finished—finished as only a very young, very sick, and very hungry young man could be ... I would never write again." Later that same day London received a letter from Umbstaetter, responding to London's submission of "A Thousand Deaths" and asking permission to cut it in half. Umbstaetter offered $40 if London agreed. London recalled "It was the equivalent to twenty dollars per thousand, or double the minimum rate. Give permission!...And that is just precisely how and why I stayed by the writing game. Literally, and literarily, I was saved by The Black Cat short story." London also repeated the assertion made by Barnes: Umbstaetter did not buy stories based on a writer's reputation, instead being willing to "judge a story on its merits and to pay for it on its merits".

London's story was not the only one about a scientific invention; early examples include "My Invisible Friend" (February 1897), by Katherine Kip, about invisibility; "Ely's Automatic Housemaid" (December 1899), by Elizabeth Bellamy, featuring a robot; and "The Man Who Found Zero" (September 1901), by Ion Arnold, about space travel. Ashley singles out Don Mark Lemon and Frank Lillie Pollock as particularly original writers. Pollock was the author of "The Invisible City" in the September 1901 issue, about mass hypnosis. Lemon's stories included several that featured inventions related to memory, including a surgical method of transferring memories in "Doctor Goldman" (December 1900); and a way of causing amnesia in "The Mansion of Forgetfulness" (April 1907). Among Lemon's other stories was "The Lace Designers" (May 1907), in which spiders create patterns in their webs that can be used as lace designs. Clark Ashton Smith, later well-known as a writer of fantastic fiction, contributed two adventure stories with an oriental setting towards the end of Umbstaetter's time as editor. Stories on science fiction themes disappeared almost completely after Umbstaetter sold the magazine; the last notable speculative fiction story was by Harry Stephen Keeler, whose "John Jones's Dollar", in the August 1915 issue, was set in the year 3221, with the compound interest on money invested in 1921 amounting to enough to buy the entire solar system.

Henry Miller's first published writing appeared in The Black Cat in 1919, as part of the Black Cat Club started by Herman Cassino. The club paid readers one cent per word for critiques of stories; it was run as a competition, and Miller had four of his critiques printed in the summer of 1919. The first to appear was "The Unbidden Guest", a critique of a story of that name by Carl Clausen. Other well-known writers who appeared in The Black Cat included Rex Stout, O. Henry, Rupert Hughes, Susan Glaspell, Ellis Parker Butler, Holman Day, and Octavus Roy Cohen.

The new company that took over ownership of The Black Cat at the end of 1919 was owned by Fox Film, and for a couple of issues the first few pages of the magazine were taken up by still shots from current films, showing stars such as William Farnum and Dorothy Phillips. The expanded magazine size, now a standard pulp length of about 160 pages, meant that far more stories could be included in each issue.

The Black Cat was "highly influential and much imitated by other magazines", according to Ashley, who lists The White Owl, The Smart Set, The Thrill Book and Weird Tales as examples. Ashley considers it a "rather idiosyncratic publisher of science fiction and original ideas...[with] an original and clever perspective".
The Black Cat appeared on a regular monthly schedule from its first issue, dated October 1895, to October 1920, missing only the February 1914 and January 1920 issues. The publisher was initially Shortstory Publishing Co., of Boston, owned by H. D. Umbstaetter, who edited the magazine until September 1912. The editorial address changed from 144 High Street to 41–47 Pearl Street in Boston with the May 1907 issue. Samuel E. Cassino of Salem Massachusetts bought the magazine from Umbstaetter, retaining the publishing company name, and Theresa Dyer, Umbstaetter's assistant, was hired as editor. It is not clear when she was replaced: a history of the magazine that appeared in the October 1920 issue says she "shortly resigned the editorship", and was replaced by T.H. Kelly. Statements of ownership published in The Black Cat show that she remained editor until at least the October 1913 issue. No statements of ownership were published during 1914, [note 6] but two bibliographic sources, Mike Ashley and Phil Stephensen-Payne, give Kelly as the editor for 1914. The 1915 statements of ownership show F. W. Osborne as editor in October 1914 and April 1915, with Herman Cassino taking over as editor no later than November 1915. Both Ashley and Stephensen-Payne cite Bessom as editor from 1915 on, but his name does not appear in the statements of ownership as editor until November 1918, and in Bessom's 1920 account of the magazine's history he records that he was a reader for Herman Cassino for some time before being made editor—in June, but he does not specify the year. Bessom remained editor during the ownership of both the New York publishers who acquired the magazine in 1919 and 1920. The publisher was Black Cat Pub. Co. when the magazine first moved to New York, changing to Black Cat Magazine Inc. with the February 1920 issue. The editor in 1922 and 1923 was the owner and publisher, William R. Kane, of Highland Falls, New York.

A black cat in a coat and hat, and advertising text
1905 advertisement for The Black Cat from the Ayers Newspaper Annual, used by advertisers to determine where to place their ads.
The magazine was monthly from the beginning until October 1920. The February 1914 issue does not appear in any bibliographies or the online archive, but the January and March 1914 issues are numbered as if the February issue does exist.[note 6] The January 1920 issue was skipped because of a printers' strike. The revived magazine, published by Kane, produced 17 issues in 1922 and 1923, first on a bimonthly schedule (with issues dated the 10th and 25th of each month), then monthly from July, and finally bimonthly for two issues, dated December 1922 and February 1923. Ashley and Stephensen-Payne list a possible April 1923 issue, and Stephensen-Payne's bibliography does not identify the volume and issue number for the December 1922 issue.

It was initially in octavo format and priced at 5 cents, and about 60 pages. The price was raised to 10 cents in May 1908, and the format increased to pulp size in September 1913. The price rose to 15 cents in 1918, and to 20 cents in 1920; the New York issues were about 160 pages. Kane reduced the price to 15 cents again for the version issued in 1922 and 1923, and shrank it to digest size, with 36 pages initially, and as few as 18 pages for some later issues.

Unsold copies of The Black Cat were rebound and marketed under the title The Thriller. There were at least 12 issues of The Thriller, and possibly more; the first was published in 1916, and the twelfth issue (the most recent known) appeared in 1918. It is possible that The Thriller included stories from other sources than just The Black Cat.

Two anthologies of stories from The Black Cat have been published. The first, titled Through the Forbidden Gates and Other Stories, contained prize-winning stories from the first few years of the magazine. It was edited by Umbstaetter and published in 1903 by The Shortstory Publishing Co. The second was The Man Who Found Zero, edited by Gene Christie, which appeared in 2011 from Black Dog Books. A collection of Umbstaetter's own stories was published in 1911 by L. C. Page under the title The Red-Hot Dollar and Other Stories from "The Black Cat".

Umbstaetter had become wealthy in the advertising and publishing business in Baltimore by the late 1880s. In 1886, he attempted to start a magazine in Boston, proposing to price it at ten cents, but was unable to get funding. He worked in the United Kingdom for a while, but lost his fortune and returned to the US, spending some time in California before settling in Boston in 1891. He again attempted to find capital to start a magazine and was again rebuffed. He finally launched The Black Cat in 1895, having saved enough money to start it on his own account.

He began to have health problems in 1912, and that year he sold The Black Cat to Samuel Cassino, the publisher of Little Folks.


Cleveland was born in Boonville, New York, the son of William Henry Moffett and Mary Jane (Cleveland). After an education at St. Paul's School in Garden City, New York, he matriculated at Yale College in Connecticut, graduating in 1883. In 1887, he joined the staff of the New York Herald, where he worked until 1892. Until 1891, his time at the Herald was spent as a foreign correspondent in Europe and Asia, where he had the opportunity to perform interviews with prominent leaders. In 1893, he became foreign editor of the New York Recorder. On February 11, 1899, he was married to Mary E. Lusk. From 1908–1909, he worked as Sunday editor for the Herald.

During his journalism career he contributed articles and stories to magazines and weeklies. In 1894, he translated Cosmopolis, an 1892 novel by French author Paul Bourget. His mystery short "The Mysterious Card" was published in the Boston-based The Black Cat in 1895. This work had the novelty of not revealing the answer to the puzzle posed, thereby gaining widespread attention; it was followed up a year later by "The Mysterious Card Revealed". In addition to serialized short stories, he also wrote several plays, including Money Talks (1905) and The Battle (1908). The latter was a dramatization of his 1907 novel, A King in Rags. Many of his works were set in locations outside the United States.
Nelly Littlehale Umbstaetter Murphy (1867–1941) was an American artist. She was born in Stockton, California, and moved to Boston when she married her first husband, Herman Umbstaetter. She drew many of the covers for The Black Cat, the magazine her husband edited from 1895 to 1912, and a collection of the covers was advertised as a free gift with subscriptions to the magazine in 1905. She studied with Joseph De Camp and Charles Howard Walker. Her first husband died in 1913, and she married Hermann Dudley Murphy in 1916.

Dolly Johnson was born in Tennessee, sometime between 1825 and 1830. She was said to be 19 years old on her sale paperwork, but in the early 20th century, several newspaper accounts had it from both Andrew Johnson's descendants and Dolly Johnson's descendants that she was only 14 years old when she was purchased by Johnson, in which case her birth year would fall closer to 1830. After the American Civil War, Dolly Johnson reported to a U.S. census taker that both her mother and father had been born in Virginia, while Dolly herself may have been a native of the town of Parrottsville, Tennessee. Dolly was not taught how to read or write. Tennessee was one of three slave states that never passed anti-literacy laws, so it would have been legal under state law to educate an enslaved child.

Dolly first appears in the historical record as property of the Gragg family. Her time with them is not documented. The Graggs were a slave-owning white family with ties to several counties in Tennessee, including Greene County (where the Andrew Johnson National Historic Site stands today) and Cocke County (site of Parrottsville). A person named John W. Gragg Sr. wrote a will, dated February 8, 1842, that was proved November 1842 in Lincoln County, Tennessee. He bequeathed to his wife four people, including an enslaved family of three ("my negro man named Adam & negro woman Lucy & her son Robin" and "my negro man Gifford") and appointed his son John W. Gragg, Jr., as executor of his estate. There is no mention of Dolly, but it is possible that Dolly was sold by the Gragg family at an estate sale, which was a common practice of the day.

Dolly recalled that she'd been for sale at auction when it was she who spotted Johnson. Liking his looks, she asked him to buy her, which he did. Whether Dolly's account is true or not, it does suggest there may have been attraction between them—or that Dolly preferred a story in which she was not passive. Whatever happened, by the laws of the day Johnson was her owner, the master. Years later a rumor circulated to the effect that Johnson had fathered at least one, if not all three, of Dolly's light-skinned children—although it was also said that Johnson's son Robert had fathered Dolly's youngest. Such allegations would surprise no one, then or later. It's also true that political enemies often accused one another of miscegenation.

Historian David Warren Bowen argues in Andrew Johnson and the Negro that Sam and Dolly were purchased in part to demonstrate an increase in the class status of the once-impoverished Johnsons, rather than because the family had significant unmet needs for labor. According to Frederic Bancroft in Slave-Trading in the Old South, young female slaves were also considered an excellent financial investment: "Not only real estate, but also stocks, bonds and all other personal property were little prized in comparison with slaves...Absurd as it now seems, slaves, especially girls and young women, because of prospective increase, were considered the best investment for persons of small means."

When he bought teenage Dolly in 1843, Andrew and Eliza were parents to four children, aged 15, 13, 11 and 9. Dolly was roughly the same age as the oldest child, Martha. For the next 20 years, from 1843 to 1863, Dolly Johnson was enslaved by the Johnson family, presumably working as a housekeeper and cook, which were her declared occupations after emancipation.

In March 1846, when she was roughly between 16 and 21 years old, Dolly Johnson became a mother herself with the birth of her daughter Lucy Elizabeth, called Liz or Lizzie. Liz was born in Tennessee to parents who were both born in Tennessee. Dolly's second child, also a daughter, named Florence, was born approximately 1850 in "Green, Tn." Dolly was approximately 20 to 25 years old at the time. The father of Liz and Florence was never named in any known historical document, and his identity remains officially unknown. Per historian Annette Gordon-Reed, "Dolly, who was described in the census as black, would give birth to three children ... listed as 'mulattoes,' which suggests that they had been fathered by a white man or an extremely light-skinned black man."

Names of individual slaves were not usually recorded on the slave schedules of the U.S. censuses of 1850 and 1860, but Dolly is believed to be the 24-year-old black woman enumerated as one of four slaves owned by A. Johnson in Division 9 in Greene County in 1850. The four- and two-year-old female mulatto children listed are believed to be Liz and Florence, and the 20-year-old male would be Sam. According to the U.S. National Park Service, Dolly may have had a third-born baby who died in infancy or childhood.

In 1851, Andrew Johnson bought an eight-room, three-floor brick house in Greeneville, Tennessee, which would be his home base for the remainder of his life, and where Dolly would have worked. According to the Robert W. Winston biography of Johnson published in 1928, Johnson's slaves "lived in a cabin, about 20 ft (6.1 m) by 30 ft (9.1 m), located on the premises and not far from the spring". In 1852, Eliza had her fifth and last child, Andrew "Frank" Johnson, Jr., born 18 years after the birth of her fourth child. In 1854, Governor Johnson wrote a letter to his second-born son Robert, aged 20, that included this statement: "I have bought a basket and some other little notions for your little brothe[r] and a little chair for Liz and Florence &c." At the time, Liz was eight years old, Florence was six, and Frank was two.

On February 8, 1858, when she was between 28 and 33 years old, and approximately eight to ten years after the birth of Florence, Dolly Johnson gave birth to her only son, William Andrew Johnson. Per Jesse J. Holland in The Invisibles: The Untold Story of African American Slaves in the White House, this child received two Johnson family names. William was the first name of Andrew Johnson's "beloved brother", and Andrew was, of course, the first name of former Tennessee governor Andrew Johnson, just then the newly elected junior U.S. Senator from Tennessee. William Andrew Johnson was interviewed in 1932 by columnist Bert Vincent, a living institution of Knoxville journalism, who quoted Johnson as saying, "Massa named hisself. He called me William Andrew." The father of William Andrew Johnson is identified on his death certificate as Andrew Johnson's fourth-born son with Eliza, Robert Johnson. Robert Johnson was between four and nine years younger than Dolly Johnson. In 1943, Andrew Johnson's great-granddaughter Margaret Johnson Patterson stated that William Andrew Johnson was the only one of Dolly's children to be born in Greeneville.

In June and July 1860, census workers assembled the slave schedules for Greene County, Tennessee. The five enumerated slaves of Andrew Johnson appear in district 14 of that county. The ages and sexes of the children match those of Dolly's children, Liz, Florence, and William A. William A. Johnson recalled this period of the family's life when interviewed in 1937: "Mr. Andrew Johnson would hold me on one knee and my sister on the other, and he'd rub our heads and laugh."

The next appearance of Dolly Johnson in the documentary record is a photograph. She was photographed holding Andrew Johnson Stover, the grandson of Andrew Johnson by his younger daughter Mary. Andrew Johnson Stover was born March 6, 1860, so the photograph can be roughly dated to 1861. The apparent quality of Dolly's gown may reflect that Andrew Johnson, a tailor by profession, was "always impeccably dressed" and widely known for the "remarkably neat appearance of his apparel".

By 1880, 21-year-old William had moved out of his mother's house, and at the time of the decennial federal census was living with the family of his older sister Liz Johnson Forby. Dolly's 14-year-old grandson, Tillman Forby, is dually enumerated in his parents' household and as a domestic servant in the home of Andrew Johnson's granddaughter, Lillie Stover Maloney. Several of Dolly Johnson's grandchildren were given names that overlap with the given names of Andrew Johnson's family (including Andrew, Charles, Lillie, and Belle).

Dolly Johnson appears to be absent from the 1880 census of Greene County, but an 1881 news item in the "Home and Neighborhood News" column of the Greeneville Herald reported that "Dolly Johnson, colored, has established a bakery in town."

In 1886, a reporter from the New York Mail and Express visited Greeneville and met "Aunt Dolly Johnson, a former slave of the late President", then in her late 50s or early 60s. The article appeared on December 2, 1886, in the New York Mail and was reprinted 14 days later in the Iowa State Register. The reporter was underwhelmed by his first two destinations in Greeneville, homes in which the president had once lived; not so the third stop on the tour.

The tailor shop, where his fortunes began, is a place of no little interest. A single room, 14 ft (4.3 m) by 20 ft (6.1 m) feet, scarcely a step from the sidewalk, on a by-street, old and dilapidated, a muddy branch near, a shackling fence without a gate, two planks nailed from post to post across the opening near the ground ... a low doorway passed, the writer stood within the walls, upon a rough, pieced-up floor of wide plank, badly worn and wearing many other marks of age. Two small windows, with glass panes and solid board shutters hanging from the outside, lighted the room, which is furnished with two beds, some chairs, and sundry household articles, the property of the present occupant, Aunt Dolly Johnson, a former slave of the late President. The house was given to her by her late mistress, Mrs. Johnson, who died subsequently to her husband, and is occupied by herself and her family as a home. Aunt Dolly supports herself by a small bakery up town. She will kindly give each tourist a splinter from some portion of the house where old master wielded his needle, thimble and shears, while his mind roamed in greater fields. It is her delight to talk of him and his family in the olden days, and show a large photograph which hangs upon her walls. "It looks just like him," she says, "and he gave it to Dolly himself."

This linen-era postcard image of Andrew Johnson's tailor shop was possibly based on a late 19th-century photograph; circa 1886 it was reported that "some old colored people have a life-time interest in the shop and they live in it"
By the time the reporter from New York came to Greeneville in 1886, Andrew and Eliza Johnson's only surviving child was Martha Johnson Patterson. She lived in town until her death in 1901 and the house was occupied by her immediate descendants until 1942.

Dolly Johnson died sometime after July 1887. Dollie Forby, Liz's youngest daughter, seemingly named after her grandmother, was born in May 1888. The National Park Service suggests her death may have occurred between 1890 and 1892. Per a 1922 newspaper feature on William Andrew Johnson, "The Johnson family, according to the negro, wanted to have [Dolly] buried in the family cemetery, but her relatives objected, as they were old fashioned negroes and were afraid the rest of their race would not understand." Dolly Johnson's burial place is unknown but her daughter Elizabeth Johnson Forby, her daughter Florence Johnson Smith, and her son William Andrew Johnson, are all buried at Knoxville College Colored Cemetery, now called Freedmen's Mission Historic Cemetery at Knoxville College.

SAG–AFTRA has a diverse membership consisting of actors, announcers, broadcast journalists, dancers, disc jockeys, news writers, news editors, program hosts, puppeteers, recording artists, singers, stunt performers, voiceover artists, and other media professionals.

Membership in SAG–AFTRA is considered a rite of passage for new performers and media professionals. It is often procured after getting hired for their first job in a studio that has a collective bargaining agreement with the union. SAG–AFTRA work is considered to be substantially more prestigious than non-union jobs. Due to the size and influence of the union, most major media firms have a collective bargaining agreement with SAG–AFTRA through the Association of Motion Picture and Television Producers. Studios that have signed a collective bargaining agreement with SAG–AFTRA are not closed shops, but are generally required to give preference to union members when hiring.

Nearly all professional actors and media professionals working for medium or large-scale American media firms are union members. According to SAG–AFTRA's Department of Labor records since its founding, around a third of the union's total membership have consistently been considered "withdrawn", "suspended", or otherwise not categorized as "active" members. These members are ineligible to vote in the union. "Honorable withdrawals" constitute the largest portion of these, at 20% of the total membership, or 46,934 members. "Suspended payment" members are the second largest, at 14%, or 33,422 members. This classification scheme is continued from the Screen Actors Guild, rather than the scheme used by AFTRA.

On February 9, 2016, NBCUniversal, Telemundo's parent company, faced claims by SAG–AFTRA of operating under a double standard between its Spanish-language and English-language talent at NBC and Telemundo. In its response, the network released a statement claiming it is "committed to making Telemundo a great place to work for our employees and will continue to invest in them to ensure their salaries and working conditions are competitive with the rest of the broadcasting industry in accordance with market size and station revenues."

A few days later on February 13, 2016, SAG–AFTRA came back and added that Telemundo had been treating its employees like "second-class professionals" given that many actors do not receive basic workplace guarantees that SAG–AFTRA contracts provide, such as fair pay, water breaks, health insurance and residuals. At that time, Telemundo president Luis Silberwasser responded by saying that SAG–AFTRA asked for recognition of the union as the bargaining agent for employees — rather than seeking a vote by employees. However, SAG–AFTRA claimed that intimidation tactics had been taking place within the network to keep employees from unionizing and that they believe "there is no such thing as a 'fair vote' when workers are afraid for their careers and livelihoods, and live with the fear of retaliation if they are seen as actively wanting to unionize. SAG–AFTRA wants to ensure full protection for workplace democracy and performers' rights to choose through a truly fair process."

In August 2016, Telemundo once again found itself up against the union when the network refused to air an ad placed by SAG–AFTRA detailing the unfair wage gap and lack of benefits Telemundo employees face as opposed to unionized performers at NBCUniversal. The ad was set to air during the network's premiere people's choice awards Premios Tu Mundo but was never placed into rotation. A Telemundo spokesperson responded saying, "After legal review, we have concluded the ad did not pass legal standards for issue-based advertisement." Meanwhile, other Spanish-language networks such as MegaTV and Estrella TV aired the ad nationwide.

SAG–AFTRA continued to stand its ground, stating that "Telemundo's decision to censor 30 seconds of truthful commentary about its working conditions shows just how averse it is to having a transparent discussion about its refusal to fairly compensate Spanish-speaking performers."

In March 2016, the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) administered a secret vote amongst 124 Telemundo performers, based on the amount of time actors have worked on telenovela dramas and other shows. SAG–AFTRA announced that 81% of eligible voters chose to unionize in a balloting process that began Feb 7 and lasted four weeks.

On July 12, 2018, SAG–AFTRA announced it had reached a first-ever tentative agreement with Telemundo Television Studios covering Spanish-language television performers, after fifteen months of negotiations.

